1	Primary health care provides the framework for delivering the socially-informed, comprehensive and patient-centred care underlying robust health-care systems and is, therefore, central to achieving universal health coverage.
2	Family physicians are best placed to embody primary health care's dual focus on community and population health because they are often employed in rural or district hospitals with limited human resources, particularly a lack of specialists.
3	Here we want to illustrate how additional training for family physicians, the key clinicians in primary care, can play a critical role in reducing disparities in access to surgical, obstetric and anaesthesia care in low- and middle-income countries and in rural or remote settings.
4	Examples are given of how training programmes can be developed in low-resource settings to equip family physicians with life-saving surgical skills and of how family physicians in high-income countries can be trained in the surgical skills essential for working overseas in low-income settings.
5	Policy-makers should promote surgical practice among family physicians by supporting family medicine programmes that include additional surgical skills training and by expanding opportunities and incentives for family physicians to serve in rural areas.
6	Moreover, national surgical plans should include a primary health care strategy for surgical care and, globally, family physicians should be considered in discussions of surgical care.
7	Finally, surgeons, anaesthesiologists, obstetricians and family physicians should be encouraged to collaborate in ensuring that all patients, regardless of place of residence, receive safe and timely surgical care.
8	To analyze notifications of flu-like syndrome according to the time interval between onset of symptoms and testing for COVID-19.
9	This was a cross-sectional study using records of flu-like syndrome cases containing results of COVID-19 diagnostic tests in the Brazilian state capitals and Federal District, held on the e-SUS Notifica system, from March 1st, 2020 to August 18th, 2020.
10	The time interval between symptom onset and testing was compared using the ANOVA test, classifying it according to test adequacy/timeliness.
11	Taking 1,942,514 notifications, average time between symptom onset and testing was 10.2 days (±17.1).
12	Among those tested, females (55.1%), people aged 20-39 years (43.8%), and the Southeast region of Brazil (43.0%) predominated.
13	58.8% of IgM ELISA tests were performed at an adequate time while 68.0% of rapid antigen tests were not performed at an adequate time.
14	Inadequacy was found between symptom onset and time taken to test for COVID-19 in the Brazilian regions.
15	The current study contributes to a sparse literature on moderators of Functional Family Therapy (FFT) by examining whether responsiveness to FFT, measured by a broad range of outcomes, varies by adolescent gender, age, and their interaction.
16	This study was informed by 687 families (n, adolescents = 581; n, caregivers = 933) and utilized a pre-post comparison design.
17	Fixed-effects regressions with gender, age, and their interaction included as explanatory variables were conducted to calculate the average change in youth mental health, callous-unemotional traits, academic outcomes, substance use, and family functioning.
18	Moderation analyses revealed that according to parent report, girls had significantly greater improvements in peer problems and family functioning, and boys benefited more in increased liking of school.
19	There were differential effects by age, such that older youth had less beneficial mental health outcomes and a smaller decrease in frequency of hash use.
20	The gender by age interaction was significant for adolescents' report of mental health and family functioning outcomes, which suggests that girls benefit from FFT less than boys during early adolescence, but benefit more than boys in late adolescence.
21	This finding adds to literature which has evidenced that family functioning is particularly important for girls by suggesting that FFT is important for improving older girls' mental health and family functioning in particular.
22	The study's results expand the examination of outcomes of FFT to include academic outcomes, and provide insight into key factors that should be considered in addressing adolescent behavioral problems and family functioning.
23	This study aimed to elucidate the mechanism underlying the effect of parental attachment on post-traumatic growth (PTG) among adolescents.
24	Nine and a half years after the Wenchuan earthquake, 872 adolescents in China were assessed using self-reported questionnaires.
25	The results showed that parental attachment had a direct association with PTG, two significant one-step indirect associations with PTG (through justice beliefs and cognitive reappraisal), two significant two-step indirect associations (through feelings of safety via justice beliefs and justice beliefs via cognitive reappraisal), and one significant three-step indirect association (through feelings of safety via justice beliefs by cognitive reappraisal).
26	The results indicated that feelings of safety, justice beliefs, and cognitive reappraisal mediated the association between parental attachment and PTG.
27	These findings highlight the importance of a family perspective and may help clinical psychologists to improve adolescents' PTG by helping them to build positive parental attachments.
28	Hypertension has been associated with worse outcomes in patients with COVID-19 infection, so concerns have been raised about the possibility that inhibitors of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) could influence the prognosis of these patients.
29	This is an observational study of 921 consecutive patients admitted with COVID-19 respiratory infection to Hospital General Universitario Ciudad Real from March 1 to April 30, 2020.
30	Following data were collected including patient demographic information, medical history, clinical characteristics, laboratory data, therapeutic interventions during the hospitalization and clinical outcomes.
31	The mean age was 78 years, and 59.2% of patients had a history of hypertension.
32	Patients with previous treatment with RAS inhibitor (42.4%) showed lower risk of the primary composite endpoint (mortality or need for invasive mechanical ventilation).
33	Treatment with RAS inhibitor (both outpatient treatment and during hospitalization) had neither effect on mortality nor need for invasive ventilation.
34	There were no differences in time-to-event analysis between groups.
35	RAS inhibitor treatment prior to admission in patients with COVID-19 respiratory infection was associated with lower risk of the primary composite endpoint and did not show neither impact on mortality nor need for invasive mechanical ventilation, even if these drugs were prescribed during hospitalization.
36	To analyze the limit-situations experienced by nurses in child health care practices, from the perspective of empowerment in health promotion.
37	This is a qualitative approach Participatory Action Research, supported by Paulo Freire's Research Itinerary, developed through Culture Circles, consisting of three stages: thematic investigation, coding and decoding and critical unveiling.
38	13 Culture Circles were held with nurses from the Family Health Strategy of five Basic Health Units in the city of Manaus, Amazonas.
39	A total of 16 nurses participated and 20 generating themes emerged from the Culture Circles, six of which were considered limit-situations by the participants: accumulation of activities; difficulty monitoring and following-up children; work focused on productivity; lack of training; limited human resources; difficulty in reception.
40	The study contributed to strengthening nurses through reflective dialogues on the realities experienced, increasing awareness and enabling interventions to transform their practices in child health care.
41	Caries is one of the most prevalent and preventable conditions worldwide.
42	If identified early enough then non-invasive techniques can be applied, and therefore this review focusses on early caries involving the enamel surface of the tooth.
43	The cornerstone of caries detection is a visual and tactile dental examination, however alternative methods of detection are available, and these include fluorescence-based devices.
44	There are three categories of fluorescence-based device each primarily defined by the different wavelengths they exploit; we have labelled these groups as red, blue, and green fluorescence.
45	These devices could support the visual examination for the detection and diagnosis of caries at an early stage of decay.
46	Our primary objectives were to estimate the diagnostic test accuracy of fluorescence-based devices for the detection and diagnosis of enamel caries in children or adults.
47	We planned to investigate the following potential sources of heterogeneity: tooth surface (occlusal, proximal, smooth surface or adjacent to a restoration); single point measurement devices versus imaging or surface assessment devices; and the prevalence of more severe disease in each study sample, at the level of caries into dentine.
48	Cochrane Oral Health's Information Specialist undertook a search of the following databases: MEDLINE Ovid (1946 to 30 May 2019);
49	Embase Ovid (1980 to 30 May 2019);
50	US National Institutes of Health Ongoing Trials Register (ClinicalTrials.gov, to 30 May 2019); and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (to 30 May 2019).
51	We studied reference lists as well as published systematic review articles.
52	We included diagnostic accuracy study designs that compared a fluorescence-based device with a reference standard.
53	This included prospective studies that evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of single index tests and studies that directly compared two or more index tests.
54	Studies that explicitly recruited participants with caries into dentine or frank cavitation were excluded.
55	Two review authors extracted data independently using a piloted study data extraction form based on the Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies 2 (QUADAS-2).
56	Sensitivity and specificity with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were reported for each study.
57	This information has been displayed as coupled forest plots and summary receiver operating characteristic (SROC) plots, displaying the sensitivity-specificity points for each study.
58	We estimated diagnostic accuracy using hierarchical summary receiver operating characteristic (HSROC) methods.
59	We reported sensitivities at fixed values of specificity (median 0.78, upper quartile 0.90).
60	We included a total of 133 studies, 55 did not report data in the 2 x 2 format and could not be included in the meta-analysis.
61	79 studies which provided 114 datasets and evaluated 21,283 tooth surfaces were included in the meta-analysis.
62	There was a high risk of bias for the participant selection domain.
63	The index test, reference standard, and flow and timing domains all showed a high proportion of studies to be at low risk of bias.
64	Concerns regarding the applicability of the evidence were high or unclear for all domains, the highest proportion being seen in participant selection.
65	Selective participant recruitment, poorly defined diagnostic thresholds, and in vitro studies being non-generalisable to the clinical scenario of a routine dental examination were the main reasons for these findings.
66	The dominance of in vitro studies also means that the information on how the results of these devices are used to support diagnosis, as opposed to pure detection, was extremely limited.
67	There was substantial variability in the results which could not be explained by the different devices or dentition or other sources of heterogeneity that we investigated.
68	The diagnostic odds ratio (DOR) was 14.12 (95% CI 11.17 to 17.84).
69	The estimated sensitivity, at a fixed median specificity of 0.78, was 0.70 (95% CI 0.64 to 0.75).
70	In a hypothetical cohort of 1000 tooth sites or surfaces, with a prevalence of enamel caries of 57%, obtained from the included studies, the estimated sensitivity of 0.70 and specificity of 0.78 would result in 171 missed tooth sites or surfaces with enamel caries (false negatives) and 95 incorrectly classed as having early caries (false positives).
71	We used meta-regression to compare the accuracy of the different devices for red fluorescence (84 datasets, 14,514 tooth sites), blue fluorescence (21 datasets, 3429 tooth sites), and green fluorescence (9 datasets, 3340 tooth sites) devices.
72	Initially, we allowed threshold, shape, and accuracy to vary according to device type by including covariates in the model.
73	Allowing consistency of shape, removal of the covariates for accuracy had only a negligible effect
74	(Chi There is considerable variation in the performance of these fluorescence-based devices that could not be explained by the different wavelengths of the devices assessed, participant, or study characteristics.
75	Blue and green fluorescence-based devices appeared to outperform red fluorescence-based devices but this difference was not supported by the results of a formal statistical comparison.
76	The evidence base was considerable, but we were only able to include 79 studies out of 133 in the meta-analysis as estimates of sensitivity or specificity values or both could not be extracted or derived.
77	In terms of applicability, any future studies should be carried out in a clinical setting, where difficulties of caries assessment within the oral cavity include plaque, staining, and restorations.
78	Other considerations include the potential of fluorescence devices to be used in combination with other technologies and comparative diagnostic accuracy studies.
79	The transition to parenthood is perceived as a stressful life event, when parents experience an immense change of their psychological focus and a reorientation of roles and responsibilities in the family system.
80	This process may be even more challenging in the presence of a parental eating disorder history.
81	This paper reviews the impact of parental eating disorders on the parents, the couple relationship, and their child during the perinatal period.
82	A parental eating disorder is associated with more negative expectations of parental efficacy as well as specific difficulties in couple communication over the child's feeding, shape, and weight.
83	Providers who better understand the effects of an eating disorder on parental functioning can more effectively intervene early on.
84	We also present couple- or parent-based, empirically supported interventions for adults with eating disorders and their partners in the prenatal and postnatal periods: Uniting Couples in the treatment of Anorexia Nervosa (UCAN) and Uniting couples In the Treatment of Eating disorders (UNITE) both enhance recovery from the eating disorder through a couple-based intervention; the Maudsley Model of Treatment for Adults with Anorexia Nervosa (MANTRA) incorporates the support of partners, when appropriate;
85	Parent-Based Prevention (PBP) focuses on improving parental functioning and reducing risk of negative parental and child outcomes.
86	Finally, we discuss the clinical implications of addressing parental eating disorders and encourage more research on these families.
87	This study aimed to describe the estimated means for weight, height, and body mass index (BMI) according to two imputation methods, using data from Vigitel (Risk and Protective Factors Surveillance System for Chronic Non-Communicable Diseases Through Telephone Interview).
88	This was a cross-sectional study that used secondary data from the Vigitel survey from 2006 to 2017.
89	The two imputation methods used in the study were hot deck and Predictive Mean Matching (PMM).
90	The weight and height variables imputed by hot deck were provided by Vigitel.
91	Two models were conducted with PMM: (i) explanatory variables - city, sex, age in years, race/color, and schooling; (ii) explanatory variables - city, sex, and age in years.
92	Weight and height were the outcome variables in the two models.
93	PMM combines linear regression and random selection of the value for imputation.
94	Linear prediction is used as a measure of distance between the missing value and the possible donors, thereby creating the virtual space with the candidate cases for yielding the value for imputation.
95	One of the candidates from the pool is randomly selected, and its value is assigned to the missing unit.
96	BMI was calculated by dividing weight in kilograms by height squared.
97	The result shows the means and standard deviations for weight, height, and BMI according to imputation method and year.
98	The estimates used the survey module from Stata, which considers the sampling effects.
99	The mean values for weight, height, and BMI estimated by hot deck and PMM were similar.
100	The results with the Vigitel data suggest the applicability of PMM to the set of health surveys.
101	Coyhaique (Southern Chile) is one of the most polluted cities in the Americas due to the burning of firewood.
102	In 2016, a mass substitution of residential heating technology was launched to decrease the air concentrations of particulate matter in the winter.
103	Based on time series analyses, the article discusses the effect of this measure on PM2.5 levels and hospitalizations for acute respiratory conditions in individuals under 15 years of age.
104	The European Commission Initiative on Breast Cancer (ECIBC) has developed new recommendations on breast cancer screening and diagnosis.
105	The objective of this work was to adapt these recommendations to Spanish in order to implement and guarantee the quality and success of breast cancer screening programmes (PCCM) throughout the Spanish territory.
106	The new European Guidelines on Screening and Diagnosis of Breast Cancer have been prepared by a multidisciplinary panel of experts and patients (Guidelines Development Group, GDG).
107	The recommendations inclu-ded are supported by systematic reviews of the evidence conducted by a team of researchers from the Ibero-American Cochrane Center.
108	For its preparation, the European Commission's conflict of interest management rules were applied and the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation) methodology was used.
109	The GRADE evidence-to-decision (EtD) frameworks were used to minimize potential influence of interests on the recommendations.
110	As a result of the systematic reviews carried out, the GDG published on the ECIBC website a list of recommendations as part of the guidelines for the screening and diagnosis of breast cancer, which were translated into Spanish in this work.
111	The adaptation to Spanish of the new recommendations helps their implementation and the creation of a uniform PCCM throughout the Spanish territory.
112	All of this improves informed decision making and the success of PCCM.
113	Introduction: during the COVID-19 crisis food habits have changed among the population as food consumption is now carried out totally at home, and visits to groceries or food centers have decreased considerably.
114	Likewise, other habits, such as physical activity or sleeping hours have also been modified.
115	Objectives: the objective of this work was to evaluate the changes occurred in eating and lifestyle habits among the adult Galician population during the confinement period ordered in Spain during the COVID-19 pandemic.
116	Methods: a survey was conducted using Microsoft Forms, and spread among the population using an instant messaging service for mobiles through the internet.
117	Results: a total of 1350 Galician adults completed the questionnaire; mean of age was 63.2 ± 8.1 years, 30 % were men, and 70 % were women.
118	The obtained data show a trend towards consumption of healthy foods such as fruits and vegetables, and a decrease in less healthy ones such as processed foods.
119	In total, 46 % of the population reported they were eating more than before the confinement, with an increase in snacking between meals
120	(54 %) and in anxiety about food due to situations of stress or nervousness bieng reported by 40 % of respondents.
121	This has resulted in an increase in body weight, reported by 44 % of participants, with the average gain being 2.8 ± 1.5 kg.
122	Conclusions: during confinement, the eating and lifestyle habits of the Galician population have been modified.
123	The weight gain observed in a population that already had a high level of overweight and obesity at confinement onset aggravates the present situation and may have a negative impact on the development of chronic, non-communicable.
124	Three-generation households that include parents and grandparents raising children together have become increasingly common in China.
125	This study examined the relations among depressive symptoms, parenting stress, and caregiver-child relationships in the mother-grandmother dyadic context.
126	Participants were mothers and grandmothers from 136 three-generation households.
127	Results from Actor-Partner Interdependence Mediation Modeling indicated that mothers' depressive symptoms were indirectly related to mother-child conflict/closeness through own parenting stress; grandmothers' depressive symptoms were indirectly related to grandmother-child conflict through own parenting stress.
128	Mothers' depressive symptoms were indirectly related to grandmothers' conflict with children through grandmothers' parenting stress, and grandmothers' depressive symptoms were indirectly related to mothers' conflict/closeness with children through mothers' parenting stress.
129	The relation between mothers' parenting stress and mother-child closeness was stronger than the relation between grandmothers' parenting stress and grandmother-child closeness.
130	Findings highlight the implications of using a family system perspective and the dyadic approach in understanding and improving family functioning in Chinese three-generation households.
131	To investigate associations between functioning, community participation, and quality of life (QoL) and identify whether participation mediates the effects of functioning on QoL.
132	The caregivers of 435 children (211 females, 224 males; mean age 12y; SD 3y 11mo; age range 5-18y) with intellectual disability and autism spectrum disorder, cerebral palsy, Down syndrome, or Rett syndrome reported on their child's functioning (dependence for managing personal needs, mobility, communication, eye contact when speaking), frequency of participation, and QoL. Linear regression and mediation analyses were used to evaluate the relationships between child functioning, participation, and QoL. Children with greater dependency for managing personal needs and limited eye contact when speaking experienced poorer QoL. Less impaired functioning was associated with more frequent participation, which, in turn, was associated with a 3-point gain in QoL for each additional point in frequency of participation (coefficient=2.67, 95% confidence interval 1.56-3.78).
133	The effect of impaired functioning on QoL was partially mediated by participation in children with greater dependency in managing personal needs and those with mildly impaired communication.
134	Greater levels of impairments with poorer functioning, notably a high level of dependence, were associated with poorer QoL. Poorer QoL can be partly explained by less frequent community participation.
135	To describe the clinical course of patients discharged from the emergency department (ED) with nonsevere coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and explore possible risk factors for later hospitalization.
136	Patients with nonsevere COVID-19 who were discharged from the ED were included prospectively.
137	We explored risk factors for hospitalization after discharge.
138	Seventy-four patients were included;
139	17 (23%) were hospitalized after discharge.
140	Three (4%) of the 17 patients died.
141	Age, lymphopenia, a high Charlson Comorbidity Index, and a shorter delay between the onset of symptoms and the first visit to the ED were associated with hospitalization afterwards, although on multivariate analysis only time less than 6 days between symptom onset and the first ED visit was associated with later hospitalization (odds ratio, 4.62; 95% CI, 1.08-19.7).
142	More than 20% of ED patients with nonsevere COVID-19 require hospitalization later.
143	As a specific measure to prevent diabetes in Mexico, the authors suggest in this letter to the editor that the labeling of food products show the glycemic index, in order to promote healthy eating habits.
144	This study aimed to identify patients eligible for a 48-h stay after colorectal resection, to provide guidance for early discharge planning.
145	A bi-institutional retrospective cohort study was undertaken of consecutive patients undergoing major elective colorectal resection for benign or malignant pathology within a comprehensive enhanced recovery pathway between 2011 and 2017.
146	Overall and severe (Clavien-Dindo grade IIIb or above) postoperative complication and readmission rates were compared between patients who were discharged within 48 h and those who had hospital stay of 48 h or more.
147	Multinominal logistic regression analysis was performed to ascertain significant factors associated with a short hospital stay (less than 48 h).
148	In total, 686 of 5122 patients (13·4 per cent) were discharged within 48 h.
149	Independent factors favouring a short hospital stay were age below 60 years (odds ratio (OR) 1·34; P = 0·002), ASA grade less than III (OR 1·42; P = 0·003), restrictive fluid management (less than 3000 ml on day of surgery: OR 1·46; P < 0·001), duration of surgery less than 180 min (OR 1·89; P < 0·001), minimally invasive approach (OR 1·92; P < 0·001) and wound contamination grade below III (OR 4·50; P < 0·001), whereas cancer diagnosis (OR 0·55; P < 0·001) and malnutrition
150	(BMI below 18 kg/m Early discharge of selected patients is safe and does not increase postoperative morbidity or readmission rates.
151	In these patients, outpatient colorectal surgery should be feasible on a large scale with logistical optimization.
152	The ways families approach eating, shape, and weight can result in stress for individual family members and challenge the overall functioning of the family.
153	This is further complicated among families with a parent who has history of obesity or undergone weight loss surgery (WLS).
154	Although WLS can positively impact other family members, it can also exacerbate conflicts regarding feeding and weight.
155	Such conflicts can involve uncertainty regarding the extent to which the entire family should make the dietary changes recommended for the post-WLS parent.
156	Conflict might also center on the appropriate level of concern regarding the children's risk of developing (or maintaining) obesity.
157	This paper uses two case examples to describe the application of a specialized, time-limited intervention: Parent-Based Prevention following Bariatric Surgery (PBP-B).
158	The program was developed to address the unique challenges and concerns that arise after, or are exacerbated by, WLS.
159	Each detailed case example illustrates a common child-feeding challenge and the employment of key PBP-B strategies throughout the course of treatment.
160	In the first case, the parent who had undergone WLS believed the family's current eating behaviors were the same as those that had led to her own overeating, obesity, and co-occurring psychiatric symptoms, while her husband disagreed.
161	In the second case, both parents were concerned about their son's weight, yet due to their prior eating histories, they felt unable to construct boundaries around the feeding experience.
162	Both cases follow families through the entire intervention and illustrate key points and challenges.
163	These cases underscore the need for novel treatment modalities to support families following parental WLS.
164	SCORE-15 (Systemic Clinical Outcome and Routine Evaluation) is a 15-item questionnaire for completion by family members aged 12 years and older to assess outcomes in systemic therapy.
165	This study aimed to investigate (a) the psychometric properties and the internal consistency reliability of the Italian version of SCORE-15, (b) clinical responsiveness, and (c) normative (Italian) criteria.
166	Furthermore, (d) the study sought to evaluate the participants' representation of both their family and their problems, analyzing open-ended questions included in the SCORE-15.
167	Data were collected from two clinical centers for 208 families (n = 507).
168	Results confirmed the three-factor structure (i.e., strengths, difficulties, and communication), a good internal consistency reliability, and indicated a cutoff threshold for the Italian version.
169	Furthermore, results showed that SCORE-15 is a good instrument for clinical responsiveness and that it can be used to explore the way in which family members describe their families and problems.
170	Overall, SCORE-15 is a brief, psychometrically robust family assessment instrument that may be used for both researchers and practitioners in several domains of clinical and social psychology.
171	Spontaneous perforation of the common bile duct is rare.
172	The cause is usually unknown, although it is sometimes related to the malformation of the bile duct.
173	Female of 1 year, with abdominal distention, hyporexia and fever, tomography with ascites, surgical findings included retroperitoneal bilioma, peritonitis and perforation of common bile duct.
174	Block resection and primary hepato-duodenal anastomosis were performed.
175	Spontaneous perforation of the common bile duct tend to evolve insidiously and delay in diagnosis is frequent.
176	Surgical management is decisive, and there are different techniques described.
177	A high index of suspicion is important, treatment must be individualized according to each patient.
178	The superior mesenteric artery (SMA) syndrome, also known as Wilkie's syndrome, is one of the rarest causes of small bowel obstruction.
179	A 36-year-old female patient, with a medical history of diabetes mellitus type 2, arrived at the emergency department with upper intestinal obstruction; a study protocol is made, integrating the diagnosis of Wilkie's syndrome.
180	We performed a laparoscopic duodenojejunostomy, the patient did well in the post-operative period.
181	Laparoscopic duodenojejunostomy is a practical option to treat Wilkie's syndrome.
182	It provides definitive treatment with the advantages and benefits of minimally invasive surgery.
183	The optimal treatment sequence for patients with rectal cancer and synchronous liver metastases remains unclear.
184	The aim of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness of short-course pelvic radiotherapy (5 × 5 Gy) followed by systemic therapy and local treatment of all tumour sites in patients with potentially curable stage IV rectal cancer in daily practice.
185	This was a retrospective study performed in eight tertiary referral centres in the Netherlands.
186	Patients aged 18 years or above with rectal cancer and potentially resectable liver ± extrahepatic metastases, treated between 2010 and 2015, were eligible.
187	Main outcomes included full completion of treatment schedule, symptom control and survival.
188	In total, 169 patients were included with a median follow-up of 49·5 (95 pr cent c.i. 43·6 to 55·6) months.
189	The completion rate for the entire treatment schedule was 65·7 per cent.
190	Three-year progression-free survival and overall survival (OS) rates were 24·2 (95 per cent c.i. 16·6 to 31·6) and 48·8 (40·4 to 57·2) per cent respectively.
191	Median OS of patients who responded well and completed the treatment schedule was 51·5 months, compared with 15·1 months for patients who did not complete the treatment (P < 0·001).
192	Adequate symptom control of the primary tumour was achieved in 87·0 per cent of all patients.
193	Multimodal treatment leads to relief of symptoms in most patients, and is associated with good survival rates in those able to complete the schedule.
194	[Correction added on 12 February 2020, after first online publication: the Conclusion has been reworded for clarity].
195	There are a variety of instruments and indicators to assess continuity of care; however there is a lack of those that describe the result of coordination between the health care levels.
196	To show two indicators that summarizes the result of the complete circuit primary level-secondary level-primary level.
197	An observational prospective cohort study was conducted, with a one-year follow-up of a random sample of the references to general surgery services in a family medicine unit of the IMSS.
198	Two indicators were analyzed: the outcome of the reference to general surgery, categorized as resolved, withdrawal and not resolved; and the time of solution of the surgical problem, which measures the median in calendar days from the issuance of the reference to the counter-reference for the reason of original sending.
199	The indicators were compared by characteristics of the patient and the first level physician.
200	The 84.8% of cases were resolved in a median time of 72 days (50-112), 14.1% of patients reject surgery and 1% wasnot resolved.
201	No statistically significant differences were found according the evaluated characteristics.
202	The overall solution time of the surgical problem in the medical unit is within the range built with previous studies, but in specific diagnoses there are significant variations.
203	The frequency of solution of the surgical problem was high for diagnoses of greater risk.
204	Concern about getting sick could help prevent disease.
205	The aim of this study was to analyze the psychometric properties of a COVID-19 concern scale (EPCov-19).
206	This is an instrument-based study and information was collected from 224 people of Peruvian nationality in the context of social isolation.
207	The items of the Cancer Concern Scale were adapted for this study.
208	A scale with satisfactory psychometric properties was obtained.
209	With a matrix of polychoric correlations, values higher than the standard were obtained in all 6 items
210	( This is a valid and reliable instrument for measuring concern about the spread of COVID-19 and can be used in future studies.
211	Faced with the prospect of a collapsed health system due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the professionals involved in the Neonatal Screening Programme (NSP) of Catalonia had to adapt to this situation in a flexible, forceful and efficient manner.
212	The most important goals were to prevent the risk of infection in the professionals, in families and their newborns, as well as to ensure the same effectiveness for the early detection of the diseases included in our programme.
213	To this end, the laboratory was reorganised by dividing the staff into groups and the spaces were redistributed.
214	It was also necessary to modify several protocols and circuits, especially for the management of early discharges from maternity centres, and for the collection of the necessary second samples (from newborns with inconclusive results or for low quality samples).
215	In general, a 36% reduction in the time of arrival of these second samples at the laboratory was achieved with respect to the previous circuit.
216	In the specific case of cystic fibrosis detection, the implementation of a new strategy meant a 100% reduction in the request for second samples and a 70% reduction in the age of diagnosis of the newborn.
217	After evaluating these changes, it can be concluded that in the face of the pandemic, the NSP of Catalonia showed determined leadership, aligning all its professionals, ensuring the continuity of the activity in the programme and generating new opportunities.
218	The new processes and circuits implemented have been definitively consolidated, improving the efficiency of the programme.
219	The present systematic review examined post-migration variables impacting upon mental health outcomes among asylum-seeking and refugee populations in Europe.
220	It focuses on the effects of post-settlement stressors (including length of asylum process and duration of stay, residency status and social integration) and their impact upon post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety and depression.
221	Twenty-two studies were reviewed in this study.
222	Length of asylum process and duration of stay was found to be the most frequently cited factor for mental health difficulties in 9 out of 22 studies.
223	Contrary to expectation, residency or legal status was posited as a marker for other explanatory variables, including loneliness, discrimination and communication or language problems, rather than being an explanatory variable itself.
224	However, in line with previous findings and as hypothesised in this review, there were statistically significant correlations found between family life, family separation and mental health outcomes.
225	Fifty percent of muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) patients succumb from metastatic disease despite radical cystectomy (RC).
226	Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) and adjuvant chemotherapy (ACT) randomized clinical trials (RCT) investigated whether peri-operative chemotherapy improves survival.
227	More recently, immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) are explored as peri-operative single agent, ICI-ICI or ICI-chemotherapy combinations.
228	Our goal is to provide the status of neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatment in MIBC.
229	The literature on NAC and ACT trials in MIBC was reviewed.
230	Since the 1980s, NAC RCTs were performed in cisplatin-fit patients, mainly using cisplatin combination chemotherapy.
231	Meta-analyses indicated a small, but significant 5% improvement in overall survival in T2-T4N0M0 MIBC patients.
232	Mostly MVAC or gemcitabine-cisplatin (GC) regimens were used without clear benefit of one regimen over the other.
233	NAC value in N+MIBC is not established and predictive value of associated~25-40% complete downstaging (pathologically confirmed complete regression, pCR) not unequivocally demonstrated.
234	Adjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy RCTs were smaller, some prematurely stopped for poor accrual, and underpowered to demonstrate clear statistical evidence for a 5% overall survival advantage in pT3-T4N1-3M0 MIBC.
235	Novel neoadjuvant immune checkpoint inhibitors, alone or with chemotherapy, phase 2 trials demonstrate down staging and encouraging clinical results.
236	Neoadjuvant MVAC or GC in cT2-T4N0 MIBC patients fit for cisplatin is still recommended based on OS benefit shown in meta-analyses, butreal-world adherence to NAC is low as ~40-50% ofpatients are unfit for cisplatin.
237	The value of neoadjuvant treatment in node-positive MIBC is not clearly demonstrated requiring more accurate clinical staging and prospective studies.
238	Adjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy may be considered in selected, chemo-naïve pT3-T4N+patients.
239	Results from prospective checkpoint inhibitor immunotherapy RCTs are needed before immunotherapy becomes a recommended alternative for peri-operative treatment.
240	Molecular tumour subtyping will support selecting novel agents for neoadjuvant or adjuvant strategies.
241	A child's disclosure of sexual victimization is a difficult experience for parents and has been associated with traumatization, disbelief, denial, self-blame, and clinical difficulties.
242	To date, most studies on parents' responses have been quantitative assessments of the psychological impact of disclosure on parents.
243	A paucity of research has qualitatively explored mothers' experiences of their child's disclosure of child sexual abuse (CSA) and fathers' experiences have been even further neglected.
244	The current study seeks to characterize parents' experiences of their child's disclosure of CSA and to uncover the process-oriented nature of parental responses.
245	This qualitative study, using a grounded theory approach to analysis, involved interviews with 10 mothers and four fathers whose children (3-18 years) had experienced sexual abuse.
246	Three themes emerged from the analysis.
247	The first theme-making sense of the abuse in retrospect-captured the process through which parents sought to make sense of their child's disclosure, focusing on why their child had not disclosed the abuse to them earlier, and how they had noticed something was wrong but misattributed their child's behavior to other factors.
248	The second theme-negotiating parental identity as protector-reflected how parents' identity as a protector was challenged, their perception of their world had been forever altered, and they now experienced themselves as hypervigilant and overprotective.
249	The final theme-navigating the services-pertained to parents' struggle in navigating child protection and police services, and feelings of being isolated and alone.
250	These findings highlight the need for empathy and parental support following child disclosure of sexual victimization.
251	Japan Clinical Oncology Group (JCOG) 0212 (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00190541) was a non-inferiority phase III trial of patients with clinical stage II-III rectal cancer without lateral pelvic lymph node enlargement.
252	The trial compared mesorectal excision (ME) with ME and lateral lymph node dissection (LLND), with a primary endpoint of recurrence-free survival (RFS).
253	The planned primary analysis at 5 years failed to confirm the non-inferiority of ME alone compared with ME and LLND.
254	The present study aimed to compare ME alone and ME with LLND using long-term follow-up data from JCOG0212.
255	Patients with clinical stage II-III rectal cancer below the peritoneal reflection and no lateral pelvic lymph node enlargement were included in this study.
256	After surgeons confirmed R0 resection by ME, patients were randomized to receive ME alone or ME with LLND.
257	The primary endpoint was RFS.
258	A total of 701 patients from 33 institutions were assigned to ME with LLND (351) or ME alone (350) between June 2003 and August 2010.
259	The 7-year RFS rate was 71.1 per cent for ME with LLND and 70·7 per cent for ME alone (hazard ratio (HR) 1·09, 95 per cent c.i. 0·84 to 1·42; non-inferiority P = 0·064).
260	Subgroup analysis showed improved RFS among patients with clinical stage III disease who underwent ME with LLND compared with ME alone (HR 1·49, 1·02 to 2·17).
261	Long-term follow-up data did not support the non-inferiority of ME alone compared with ME and LLND.
262	ME with LLND is recommended for patients with clinical stage III disease, whereas LLND could be omitted in those with clinical stage II tumours.
263	To estimate the prevalence of immunity against Hepatitis B virus among all healthcare workers linked to the Departments of Public Health in Torrevieja and Elx-Crevillent,two municipalities in the Valencian Community, Spain.
264	Cross-sectional descriptive study of healthcare workers in two different public health departments.
265	Once the sample was obtained, the anti-hepatitis B surface antibody (anti-HBsAb) levels were abstracted based on serological test results recorded in the workers' medical records.
266	Titers of anti-HBsAB ≥10mlU / ml were considered as evience of immunity.
267	The variables analyzed were classified by department, gender, age (18-34; 35-49;≥50 years); professional category (physicians / nursing / other health personnel / nonhealth personnel); service at risk of contagion (Yes / No); immunity (≥10mlU/ml, 〈10mlU/ml,missing) and systematic anti-HBs vaccination by date of birth (Yes / No).
268	The study population consisted of 2674 workers.
269	The highest proportions of workers were female(68.8%), between 35 and 49 years of age (52.8%), and employed in nursing,(32.2%).
270	Overall, 74.9% of employees had evidence of hepatitis B immunity, 11.3% had no inmunity, and 13.8% was missing information on serology.
271	Among those employees with serological information (n=2306), lack of immunity was highest among males (17.8%).Protective titers were inversely proportional to age, with the lowest titers being found in the oldest age groups.
272	Non-healthcare personnel and physicians also had lower levels of protection (36.9% and 11.1%, respectively).
273	Despite identifying high levels of immunity among healthcare workers, the percentages of non-immunized employees and those lacking immunological information underscores the need to implement new communication strategies aimed at these at-risk groups.
274	Introduction: assessing the relationship between childhood diseases and nutrient intake is a crucial issue that requires valid and reliable dietary assessment tools in this period of physical and physiological development.
275	Objective: the present study aimed to develop and validate a food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) to assess nutrient intake in Jordanian children.
276	Methods: in this validation study, nutrient intake as obtained from a culturally sensitive quantitative FFQ was compared to nutrient intake as assessed by four 24-hour dietary recalls (24-HRs) between September 2017 and May 2018.
277	One hundred and thirty-six children aged 6-18 years were enrolled from selected schools in Amman, Jordan.
278	Children or their caregivers were asked to complete the FFQ during an initial face-to-face interview.
279	Four 24-HRs were collected weekly over one month.
280	Of these children, 50 also took part in the reproducibility phase, which involved a repeat completion of the FFQ within 1 month.
281	Results: the intraclass correlation coefficients between the two FFQs ranged from 0.5 for trans-fats to 0.96 for calcium.
282	Correlation coefficients between dietary intake estimates derived from the FFQ and 24-HRs were significant at p < 0.05.
283	The highest correlation was detected for energy (0.8) while the lowest was identified for trans-fatty acids (0.04).
284	For all nutrients, over 60 % of participants were classified into the same or adjacent quartile of crude and adjusted intake.
285	Bland-Altman plots showed a satisfactory agreement between the two methods for energy and proteins.
286	Conclusion: the FFQ showed a good reproducibility and a reasonable relative validity for most nutrients.
287	The study aims to evaluate the association between teenage pregnancy and prematurity.
288	The data are from the Birth in Brazil study, a national survey consisting of 23,894 postpartum women and their newborn infants.
289	The information was obtained from interviews with the mothers during their postpartum hospital stay.
290	A matching method was established, based on propensity scores, to deal with differences between the groups due to the non-experimental design of the Birth in Brazil study.
291	The study outcome was gestational age, considering all the premature births (gestational age < 37 weeks) and term births (gestational age 37 weeks to 41 weeks and 6 days).
292	The study revealed social, economic, and maternal care disparities between the women according to age bracket.
293	The highest proportions of teenage mothers were in the least developed regions of Brazil (North and Northeast) and in the poorest economic classes.
294	After matching for socioeconomic and obstetric care characteristics, the highest odds of spontaneous prematurity were seen in younger adolescents compared to older adolescents (OR = 1.49; 95%CI: 1.07-2.06), and young adults (OR = 2.38; 95%CI: 1.82-3.12).
295	Prematurity is still an issue in the field of maternal and child health, and the association with teenage pregnancy identified in this study is worrisome, especially because younger adolescent mothers were associated with higher odds of spontaneous prematurity.
296	The study aimed to compare two concepts of rurality, one proposed by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) and the other by the World Bank, to determine which is better fitted to the territory's reality, besides analyzing the infant mortality profile of rural municipalities (counties) in the state of Paraíba, Brazil, according to the best criterion for rurality.
297	This was an observational epidemiological study conducted in the state of Paraíba.
298	The method for analyzing rural/urban typologies was based on data mining, using the Apriori algorithm of association.
299	Infant mortality was analyzed with descriptive statistics.
300	The data were obtained from the Mortality Information System of the Brazilian Ministry of Health, from 2007 to 2016, and municipal indicators were from IBGE.
301	The World Bank definition of rurality showed kappa = 0.337, compared to the IBGE definition, with kappa = 0.616. Among the 223 municipalities that were analyzed, the World Bank classified 130 (65.66%) correctly, and the IBGE 183 (82.06%).
302	The predominant epidemiological profile of infant mortality in rural municipalities in Paraiba state was male gender (57.4%), brown skin color (61.1%), age from 0 to 7 days (52.4%), low birthweight (44%), and gestational age less than 37 weeks (43.2%).
303	Underlying cause of death was classified as avoidable death via interventions by the Brazilian Unified National Health System (65.2%).
304	The urban/rural typology adopted by the IBGE was better than the World Bank at classifying the municipalities in Paraiba state.
305	This classification allowed studying the infant mortality profile in rural municipalities, which was similar to the overall profile, except for maternal schooling.
306	Introduction: Congenital hypothyroidism is a preventable cause of cognitive disability.
307	Due to the absence of symptoms and signs in the newborn, it is necessary to perform screening tests.
308	Its incidence ranges between 1:2,500 and 1:6,000.
309	Objective: To describe the anthropometric and demographic characteristics, as well as the cord TSH levels, serum TSH, and serum T4L levels of the positive patients during screening and patients with confirmed congenital hypothyroidism.
310	Materials and methods: We conducted a retrospective observational study for 17 years based on the review of clinical laboratory and medical records to describe the demographic and anthropometric characteristics of the patients at the time of diagnosis.
311	Results: We analyzed 41,494 newborns in the 17 years of follow-up; 217 (0.52%) were positive in the screening test and the diagnosis was confirmed by serum tests (TSH and free T4) in 19 cases (8.76%) for an incidence of one for every 2,183 live births;
312	78.95% of the children with congenital hypothyroidism were born full-term and the average gestational age was 37.3 weeks, similar to that of those with no congenital hypothyroidism.
313	There was no difference in the average weight and height at birth between the children with the condition and those who did not have it.
314	TSH in the cord in the cases of congenital hypothyroidism was significantly higher than in the discarded cases.
315	Conclusions: The incidence of congenital hypothyroidism was similar to that found in the literature.
316	There were no relevant clinical differences between confirmed and ruled out cases reflecting the relevance of neonatal screening.
317	Improvements in medical technologies have seen over-medicalization of childbirth.
318	Caesarean section (CS) is a lifesaving procedure proven effective in reducing maternal and perinatal mortality across the globe.
319	However, as with any medical procedure, the CS intrinsically carries some risk to its beneficiaries.
320	In recent years, CS rates have risen alarmingly in high-income countries.
321	Many exceeding the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommendation of a 10 to 15% annual CS rate.
322	While this situation poses an increased risk to women and their children, it also represents an excess human and financial burden on health systems.
323	Therefore, from a health system perspective this study systematically summarizes existing evidence relevant to the factors driving the phenomenon of increasing CS rates using Italy as a case study.
324	Employing the WHO Health System Framework (WHOHSF), this systematic review used the PRISMA guidelines to report findings.
325	PubMed, SCOPUS, MEDLINE, Cochrane Library and Google Scholar databases were searched up until April 1, 2020.
326	Findings were organised through the six dimensions of the WHOHSF framework: service delivery, health workforce, health system information; medical products vaccine and technologies, financing; and leadership and governance.
327	CS rates in Italy are affected by complex interactions among several stakeholder groups and contextual factors such as the hyper-medicalisation of delivery, differences in policy and practice across units and the national context, issues pertaining to the legal and social environment, and women's attitudes towards pregnancy and childbirth.
328	Mitigating the high rates of CS will require a synergistic multi-stakeholder intervention.
329	Specifically, with processes able to attract the official endorsement of policy makers, encourage concensus between regional authorities and local governments and guide the systematic compliance of delivery units with its clinical guidelines.
330	In Spain, water pipe is a common device for substance abuse.
331	It is the second most widespread way of cannabis abuse (11.9%) between young people from 14 to 23 years old.
332	This use has become a public health problem, because of an intensive consumption in young people is considered as a predictor of excessive consumption in adulthood, and it causes health problems and increases the health costs.
333	The aim of this study was to analyze the relationship between water pipe use, lifestyle (diet, physical activity and sleep) and psychological distress, also considering unexpected effects, in university students.
334	An observational and cross-sectional study was carried out, on a sample of 825 students from the University of Huelva, selected by random sampling stratified by conglomerates.
335	The instruments used were extracted from a larger study called "Health Behavior in University".
336	SPSS 26.0 software was used for statistical analysis and statistical analysis was performed on the data collected.
337	The use of water pipe was associated with less adherence to the Mediterranean diet (t=1.64; p=0.04; d=0.12), a lower number of hours of sleep during weekends (t=2.12; p =0.03; d=0.14) and with intense physical activity (t=-1.80; p=0.07; d=0.13).
338	On the contrary, it was not associated with psychological distress.
339	The use of water pipe seems to be inversely related to some aspects of a lifestyle that could be associated with long-term metabolic and respiratory diseases.
340	The Neonatal Screening Program in Catalonia from its inception fifty years ago until today, has enabled the early diagnosis and treatment of more than 2,000 newborns.
341	In the last decade, the Program has undergone various extensions regarding its panel of diseases and has improved its evaluation with the inclusion of quality indicators in all its stages.
342	One of the pending subjects of the screening program has been the improvement of the quality indexes related to the sample's arrival time to the laboratory after their extraction.
343	The extension of the territory, the dispersion of numerous maternal centers, as well as the diversity and heterogeneity of the sample transport systems, have been an obstacle to quality compliance of these indexes.
344	With the aim of reducing the period of samples arrival to the laboratory and continue to move towards meeting the standards established by the Ministry of Health, in 2020 a unified sample transport system has been implemented for the entire Catalan territory.
345	The times obtained during the first months with the new system, have shown a notable improvement in the results, achieving a reduction of 50% of the days between the extraction of the sample and its arrival at the laboratory.
346	Objective: the aim of this research was to explore the relationship between dietary pattern habits and compliance with screen-time guidelines in Spanish schoolchildren.
347	Material and methods: a cross-sectional and associative study was performed in a total of 370 schoolchildren (44.9 % girls) aged 6-13 (8.7 ± 1.8) years.
348	Results: for boys, those who did not meet these guidelines presented lower chances of eating vegetables regularly (OR = 0.50; 95 % CI = 0.28-0.89) or more than once a day (OR = 0.43; 95 % CI = 0.22-0.85).
349	In girls, it was observed that those who did not meet the guidelines presented a lower probability of eating one piece of fruit (OR = 0.43; 95 % CI = 0.19-0.99) as well as a second piece (OR = 0.22; 95 % CI = 0.22-0.81), vegetables more than once a day (OR = 0.39; 95 % CI = 0.19-0.80), fish (at least 2-3 times/week) (OR = 0.40; 95 % CI = 0.20-0.78) and nuts (at least 2 or 3 times per week) (OR = 0.46; 95 % = 0.24-0.87). Conclusion: some healthy eating patterns, such as the consumption of fruits and vegetables, appeared to be more prevalent in those children who met the international screen-time guidelines.
350	This essay discusses the repercussions of the COVID-19 pandemic on the relation between labor and health, from the perspective of the workers' risk and vulnerability.
351	The pandemic has represented a humanitarian crisis, since both the disease and the measures to contain it lead to persistent socioeconomic effects.
352	In this context, the labor category has an important role, either because of the feasibility of maintaining the social distancing and living conditions allowed by the employment relationship, or because of the impossibility of adopting protection strategies due to job insecurity.
353	The essay was initially built on the basis of a literature review on the interface between COVID-19 and workers' health, carried out from December 2019 to April 2020, on the PubMed, BIREME, Cochrane Library, medRxiv and LitCovid bases, as well as using gray literature.
354	Health professionals are more affected, but they also have greater access to diagnosis; however, data are still scarce on other professional categories, as well as on the social determinants that lead to greater labor-related vulnerability.
355	In Brazil, the pandemic coincides with a situation in which workers accumulate significant losses of labor and social security rights, in addition to pre-existing social inequalities, such as precarious housing, with greater exposure and risk.
356	Although the pandemic is still evolving, social inequalities are expected to intensify, with the deep retraction of the economy, and workers must be a priority target of attention in the control and spread of the disease, in addition to being the axis for planning public social and health protection policies.
357	Introduction: sarcopenia is considered a risk factor for cancer patients, as it increases mortality and post-surgical complications, and reduces response to treatment and quality of life.
358	Objective: to identify the risk of sarcopenia by SARC-CalF, as well as the factors associated with this outcome in patients with cancer of the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) and adnexal glands.
359	Methods: this cross-sectional study included patients with cancer of the GIT and adnexal glands, without edema or ascites, of both sexes and aged ≥ 20 years.
360	Conventional anthropometric variables and handgrip strength (HGS) were measured.
361	The risk of sarcopenia was assessed through the SARC-CalF questionnaire, and nutritional status by the Patient-Generated Subjective Global Assessment (PG-SGA).
362	The data analysis was performed using the SPSS® software, 22.0, with a significance of 5 %. Results: seventy patients took part in the study.
363	Of these, 55.7 % were female, 52.9 % were aged over 60 years, and 64.3 % were non-white.
364	PG-SGA identified 50.0 % of patients as well-nourished and 50.0 % as having some degree of malnutrition.
365	The prevalence of risk of sarcopenia was 28.6 %. There were different correlations between the SARC-CalF score and anthropometric variables (p < 0.05) according to life stage (adults and elderly).
366	After a linear regression analysis the measures that most influenced the SARC-CalF score were arm circumference (AC) and adductor pollicis muscle thickness in the dominant hand (DAPMT) for adults, while for the elderly current weight and DAPTM (p < 0.05) were more relevant.
367	Conclusion: SARC-CalF identified 28.6 % of patients at risk for sarcopenia and was associated with body weight and anthropometric variables indicative of muscle reserve in adults and the elderly.
368	The aim of this study was to review risk factors for conversion in a cohort of patients with rectal cancer undergoing minimally invasive abdominal surgery.
369	A retrospective analysis was performed of consecutive patients operated on from February 2005 to April 2018.
370	Adult patients undergoing low anterior resection or abdominoperineal resection for primary rectal adenocarcinoma by a minimally invasive approach were included.
371	Exclusion criteria were lack of research authorization, stage IV or recurrent rectal cancer, and emergency surgery.
372	Risk factors for conversion were investigated using logistic regression.
373	A subgroup analysis of obese patients
374	(BMI 30 kg/m A total of 600 patients were included in the analysis.
375	The overall conversion rate was 9·2 per cent.
376	Multivariable analysis showed a 72 per cent lower risk of conversion when patients had robotic surgery (odds ratio (OR) 0·28, 95 per cent c.i. 0·15 to 0·52).
377	Obese patients experienced a threefold higher risk of conversion compared with non-obese patients (47 versus 24·4 per cent respectively; P < 0·001).
378	Robotic surgery was associated with a reduced risk of conversion in obese patients (OR 0·22, 0·07 to 0·71).
379	Robotic surgery was associated with a lower risk of conversion in patients undergoing minimally invasive rectal cancer surgery, in both obese and non-obese patients.
380	Safety positive performance indicators (PPI) reflect key aspects of safety culture; some of them also have predictive validity for occupational injuries.
381	This is the case of the Organizational Performance Metric (OPM), developed by the Canadian Institute for Work & Health (IWH), a short, widely validated international English language questionnaire.
382	The objective of this study was to obtain a transculturally adapted Spanish language version ofthe OPM, and to analyze its statistical reliability, validity and internal consistency.
383	After a translation and back translation process was performed by an expert panel, 478 questionnaires were completed in Navarra, Spain.
384	We calculated the Cronbach alpha coefficient, bivariate correlations and the intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) and performed exploratory factorial analysis of all eight items.
385	Data show the new tool has high reliability (Cronbach alpha==0.863) and internal validity (ICC=0.842).
386	The factorial analysis confirmed a single latent factor among the eight items of the questionnaire. the adapted questionnaire (OPM-Esp) constitutes a valid instrument for use as an indicator of safety performance in Spanish companies.
387	Its brevity and simplicity make it especially useful in the work environment.
388	Its ability to predict occupational injuries should be tested in the Spanish context.
389	The identification of atrial fibrillation in older patients who come to Primary Care consultations is a topic of interest that has been scarcely studied.
390	The objective of this work was to estimate the frequency of new cases of atrial fibrillation and to analyze the clinical-epidemiological characteristics of patients 65 years of age or older, detected in Primary Care in Spain.
391	An observational, descriptive, national, multicenter study was carried out in 48 health centers, in which 218 doctors and 101 Primary Care nurses recruited 7,068 patients, who underwent an arterial pulse and an electrocardiogram. in case of being abnormal or doubtful, determining the presence of atrial fibrillation and other rhythm disorders, symptoms and signs compatible with atrial fibrillation and comorbidity and cardiovascular risk factors.
392	A univariate, bivariate and multivariate analysis (multiple logistic regression) was performed.
393	The patients had a mean age of 74.41±6.78 (DT) years.
394	2.3% presented atrial fibrilation (95% CI: 2.0-2.7), being its frequency higher in men (2.9%; p<0.001), and as age increased (p<0.001).
395	The most frequent symptoms present among patients with atrial fibrillation were palpitations (Odds Ratio -OR-=3.50; 95% CI: 2.28-5.37), dyspnea (OR=2.71; 95% CI: 1.87-3.90), general discomfort (OR=2.32, 95% CI: 1.15-4.63), and dizziness (OR=1.80, 95% CI: 1.20-3.51).
396	The 21.8% were asymptomatic.
397	The frequency of new cases of atrial fibrillation in the Spanish population of 65 years or older is high, being higher in men and increasing with age.
398	Two out of ten patients are asymptomatic.
399	Palpitations and dyspnea are the predominant symptoms in patients with atrial fibrillation.
400	Anxiety in relation to surgery is a well-known problem.
401	Melatonin offers an alternative treatment to benzodiazepines for ameliorating this condition in the preoperative and postoperative periods.
402	To assess the effects of melatonin on preoperative and postoperative anxiety compared to placebo or benzodiazepines.
403	We searched the following databases on 10 July 2020: CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, and Web of Science.
404	For ongoing trials and protocols, we searched clinicaltrials.gov and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform.
405	We included randomized, placebo-controlled or standard treatment-controlled (or both) studies that evaluated the effects of preoperatively administered melatonin on preoperative or postoperative anxiety.
406	We included adult patients of both sexes (15 to 90 years of age) undergoing any kind of surgical procedure for which it was necessary to use general, regional, or topical anaesthesia.
407	One review author conducted data extraction in duplicate.
408	Data extracted included information about study design, country of origin, number of participants and demographic details, type of surgery, type of anaesthesia, intervention and dosing regimens, preoperative anxiety outcome measures, and postoperative anxiety outcome measures.
409	We included 27 randomized controlled trials (RCTs), involving 2319 participants, that assessed melatonin for treating preoperative anxiety, postoperative anxiety, or both.
410	Twenty-four studies compared melatonin with placebo.
411	Eleven studies compared melatonin to a benzodiazepine (seven studies with midazolam, three studies with alprazolam, and one study with oxazepam).
412	Other comparators in a small number of studies were gabapentin, clonidine, and pregabalin.
413	No studies were judged to be at low risk of bias for all domains.
414	Most studies were judged to be at unclear risk of bias overall.
415	Eight studies were judged to be at high risk of bias in one or more domain, and thus, to be at high risk of bias overall.
416	Melatonin versus placebo Melatonin probably results in a reduction in preoperative anxiety measured by a visual analogue scale (VAS, 0 to 100 mm) compared to placebo (mean difference (MD) -11.69, 95% confidence interval (CI) -13.80 to -9.59; 18 studies, 1264 participants; moderate-certainty evidence), based on a meta-analysis of 18 studies.
417	Melatonin may reduce immediate postoperative anxiety measured on a 0 to 100 mm VAS compared to placebo (MD -5.04, 95% CI -9.52 to -0.55; 7 studies, 524 participants; low-certainty evidence), and may reduce delayed postoperative anxiety measured six hours after surgery using the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) (MD -5.31, 95% CI -8.78 to -1.84; 2 studies; 73 participants; low-certainty evidence). Melatonin versus benzodiazepines (midazolam and alprazolam) Melatonin probably results in little or no difference in preoperative anxiety measured on a 0 to 100 mm VAS (MD 0.78, 95% CI -2.02 to 3.58; 7 studies, 409 participants; moderate-certainty evidence) and there may be little or no difference in immediate postoperative anxiety (MD -2.12, 95% CI -4.61 to 0.36; 3 studies, 176 participants; low-certainty evidence).
418	Adverse events Fourteen studies did not report on adverse events.
419	Six studies specifically reported that no side effects were observed, and the remaining seven studies reported cases of nausea, sleepiness, dizziness, and headache; however, no serious adverse events were reported.
420	Eleven studies measured psychomotor and cognitive function, or both, and in general, these studies found that benzodiazepines impaired psychomotor and cognitive function more than placebo and melatonin.
421	Fourteen studies evaluated sedation and generally found that benzodiazepine caused the highest degree of sedation, but melatonin also showed sedative properties compared to placebo.
422	Several studies did not report on adverse events; therefore, it is not possible to conclude with certainty, from the data on adverse effects collected in this review, that melatonin is better tolerated than benzodiazepines.
423	When compared with placebo, melatonin given as premedication (as tablets or sublingually) probably reduces preoperative anxiety in adults (measured 50 to 120 minutes after administration), which is potentially clinically relevant.
424	The effect of melatonin on postoperative anxiety compared to placebo (measured in the recovery room and six hours after surgery) was also evident but was much smaller, and the clinical relevance of this finding is uncertain.
425	There was little or no difference in anxiety when melatonin was compared with benzodiazepines.
426	Thus, melatonin may have a similar effect to benzodiazepines in reducing preoperative and postoperative anxiety in adults.
427	Introduction: thickeners are widely used in swallowing disorders, both for diagnosis and to achieve a safe and effective diet.
428	Recently, products composed of gums have been commercialized in the Spanish market in order to improve the organoleptic and physical qualities of thickened foods.
429	Objective: to compare thickening agents of clinical scope marketed in Spain, and to verify their organoleptic and physical characteristics, to be used in the diagnostic procedures and the feeding of patients with dysphagia.
430	Method: the organoleptic (appearance, colour, smell, taste, aftertaste) and physical (solubility, stability) properties of eight thickeners (4 classic starch-based and 4 new gum-based) were assessed in a sample of 44 healthy subjects.
431	In addition, their usefulness in diagnostic tests was studied by mixing them with dyes and water-soluble contrasts.
432	Results and conclusions: new-generation thickeners, based on gums, generally obtain better scores for their physical and organoleptic qualities than conventional thickeners.
433	Starch thickeners are more suitable for diagnostic tests, as gum thickeners present some peculiarities in their mixtures with dyes and contrasts that must be taken into account in diagnostic tests.
434	It remains unclear whether extended lymphadenectomy provides oncological advantages in colorectal cancer.
435	This multicentre RCT aimed to address this issue.
436	Patients with resectable primary colonic cancer were enrolled in four hospitals registered in the COLD trial, and randomized to D2 or D3 dissection in a 1 : 1 ratio.
437	Data were analysed to assess the safety of D3 dissection.
438	The study included the first 100 patients randomized in this ongoing trial.
439	Ninety-nine patients were included in the intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis (43 D2, 56 D3).
440	Ninety-two patients received the allocated treatment and were included in the per-protocol (PP) analysis: 39 of 43 in the D2 group and 53 of 56 in the D3 group.
441	There were no deaths.
442	The 30-day postoperative morbidity rate was 47 per cent in the D2 group and 48 per cent in the D3 group, with a risk ratio of 1·04 (95 per cent c.i. 0·68 to 1·58) (P = 0·867). There were two anastomotic leaks (5 per cent) in the D2 group and none in the D3 group.
443	Postoperative recovery, complication and readmission rates did not differ between the groups in ITT and PP analyses.
444	Mean lymph node yield was 26·6 and 27·8 in D2 and D3 procedures respectively.
445	Good quality of complete mesocolic excision was more frequently noted in the D3 group (P = 0·048).
446	Three patients in the D3 group (5 per cent) had metastases in D3 lymph nodes.
447	D3 was never the only affected level of lymph nodes.
448	N-positive status was more common in the D3 group (46 per cent versus 26 per cent in D2), with a risk ratio of 1·81 (95 per cent c.i. 1·01 to 3·24) (P = 0·044). D3 lymph node dissection is feasible and may be associated with better N staging.
449	Registration number: NCT03009227 ( http://www.clinicaltrials.gov).
450	Functional status decline is related to many negative outcomes.
451	To explore the relationship of sociodemographic, medical, and psychological factors with the incidence of functional status decline in Mexican older adults.
452	Data from the 2012 and 2015 waves of the Mexican Health and Aging Study (MHAS) survey were analyzed.
453	Participants with previous functional status decline at baseline were excluded.
454	We assessed functional status decline individually with activities of daily living (ADL) and instrumental ADL (IADLs) in an individual way.
455	Age was associated with functional limitations in ADL.
456	Being male had an association with limitations for IADL.
457	A poor financial situation and lower education related to higher limitations for ADL.
458	Furthermore, pain, comorbidities, and depression were found to be independently associated with limitations in ADL.
459	IADL limitation was associated with age, poor education, comorbidities, and depression, as well as cognitive impairment.
460	We found that factors such as age, financial status, educational level, pain, and the number of comorbidities were associated with the incidence of functional status decline.
461	Pain had a greater association in the 3-year functional ADL decline incidence when compared with cognitive impairment.
462	Studying functional decline by domains allowed us to find more detailed information to identify factors susceptible to intervention with the aim to reduce the incidence of functional status decline and dependence.
463	Advances in the diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer have improved the prognosis for these patients.
464	Consequently, a greater number of survivors are facing the process of returning to work.
465	The objective of the present study was to analyze the frequency, median time and factors related to the return to work of patients with breast cancer, after diagnosis and completion of treatment at a cancer referral center in the city of Medellín, Colombia METHODS: a retrospective cohort study was carried out with registries of patients with breast cancer (n = 141) from a reference cancer center.
466	Sociodemographic, occupational, treatment variables and prevalence of return to work were measured.
467	The average age at diagnosis was 45.8 ± 9 years, Most of the women were premenopausal,and 45% performed manual labour.
468	Advanced disease stage, manual labour, the presence of lymphedema and a greater number of episodes and days of disability werenegatively related to return to work.
469	A total of 93% of patients returned to work.
470	This study shows that return to work differs according to disease stage, treatment-related factors and type of work.
471	In the last decades, only few improvements have been made in the comprehension of bladder cancer tumor leading to few improvements in the development of new diagnostic and therapeutic approaches.
472	However, in the last years several step forwards in the field of precision medicine have been made.
473	In this review we focused on some of these elements such as the available biomarkers, the role of enhanced transurethral resection of the bladder and the role of the molecular classification in defining prognosis and therapeutic approaches in bladder cancer patients.
474	Although several progresses have been made, at the time none of the existing biomarkers appear to be able to safely avoid the need of cystoscopy during the follow up of bladder cancer patients.
475	However, these biomarkers representan important tool to follow up patients with a less invasive methods and in the near future might be able to substitute the need of cystoscopy.
476	Enhanced transurethral resection technique can in some cases reduce the risk of recurrence during follow up, although its impact on survival outcomes is still under debate.
477	Transurethral resection of the bladder represents a fundamental diagnostic and therapeutic step in the management of bladder cancer and these techniques can successfully improve its outcomes.
478	Finally, the molecular classification of the bladder cancer represents one of the most exciting novelty in this field, improving consistently the knowledge of bladder cancer.
479	Improvements regarding prognoses and therapeutics can be achieved although data stil need validation.
480	Compared to higher-income couples, low-income couples experience higher rates of relationship disruption, including divorce and breakup of cohabiting relationships.
481	In recognition of this disparity in relationship outcomes, relationship interventions have increasingly been targeted at this population.
482	However, these interventions have had limited impacts on the relationships of low-income couples.
483	Developing interventions that are effective and responsive to the needs of low-income couples requires descriptive data on the challenges those couples perceive in their own relationships and an assessment of how their needs compare to the more affluent couples typically served by relationship interventions.
484	The current study sampled over 5,000 individuals at the time they were seeking an online relationship intervention and compared the relationship functioning and life circumstances reported by low-income individuals to that of higher-income individuals.
485	Results indicate that low-income individuals seeking a relationship intervention had higher levels of relationship distress (lower relationship satisfaction, more intense primary relationship problems, and less relationship stability), and had greater levels of contextual stress (more children living at home, less likely to be employed full-time, and lower levels of perceived health).
486	Results suggest that future interventions designed to target low-income couples, as well as practitioners working with low-income couples, should be prepared to handle higher levels of relationship distress and contextual stressors than they may typically see in more affluent couples.
